# battlescript
A simple Hack'n'slash style game idea where users provide scripts that define how their heros fight.

* There are weapons.
* There are no magic powers.
* There are no powerups.

There are no clans.  Every player for themselves.

Each players fighting rules is their secret, not shown to other players.

Using a very simple attribute system
### Health
A hero's level governs their maximum HEALTH points.
If health reaches 0, the hero is removed from the battle.

### Stamina
STAMINA is slowly increased during a battle (to it's maximum).  Almost all actions use stamina, faster than it has been generated.  To increase stamina don't do anything that uses it.  Stamina gives you an extra 'oomph' when attacking or receiving a blow.  Managing STAMINA could be the difference between winning and losing a battle with 2 equally matched opponents.

### Attack
Combined with STRENGTH and STAMINA and offset against the enemy's DEFENCE to reduce enemy HEALTH.  You can increase your ATTACK with CREDITS but there is a negative effect to your speed

### Defence
Combined with STRENGTH and STAMINNA and offset against the enemy's ATTACK to reduce the effect the attack has on your HEALTH.  You can increase your DEFENCE with CREDITS but there is a negative effect to your dodge (speed)

### Speed
when moving around the arena, SPEED is rounded up to the nearest whole number.  In other calculations, SPEED is rounded to 3 decimal places.
, but is affected negatively by weight
  Improves chances of dodging an ATTACK.
  Improves chances of landing an ATTACK.
  In instances where both parties ATTACK simultaneously, a faster ATTACK will reduce the effect of the opponent's ATTACK
  Using speed affects stamina
  SPEED can be improved by credits.

### Strength
How hard you can hit.  STAMINA affects STRENGTH.  Using STRENGTH spends STAMINA

### Carry Weight
your base ATTACK + base DEFENCE + STRENGTH
If you have used credits to improve your attack or defence, your speed, ability to dodge and block will be affected.

### Credits
You spend credits to improve your Attack, Defence, Health.  
Because effectively you are turning credits into health (through first aid)
When you reduce another player's health, that gets converted into credits that you have earned in your attack.  Even if you ultimately lose a match, you get something for what you did achieve while still functional.


# XP and Levels
Level 1 XP is BASE XP + 10% = 1.100
Level 2 XP is Level 1 XP + 10% = 1.210
Each Level is +10% the previous level.  


# Base Attribute Settings
XP: 1.000
HEALTH: 100.000
STAMINA: 100.000
ATTACK: 1.000
DEFENCE: 1.000
SPEED: 0.100
STRENGTH: 0.100
CARRY WEIGHT: ATTACK + DEFENCE + STRENGTH

Note: all stats are rounded to 3 decimal places.



# Regeneration during battle
HEALTH can be regenerated by using first aid kits which must be purchased prior to battle.




## Battle Arena
The battle happens on a 7x11 2D grid.
```
...........
.X.......X.
...X...X...
.X.......X.
...X...X...
.X.......X.
...........
```

Players can move up, down, left, right.  not diagonally.  only one player can be in any grid position.  This design is to force players into combat.
In order to fight they need to be immediately beside each other.
Adjacent players on opposing teams can fight (not diagonaly).  There are no ranged attacks.

Turn based rounds

### MOVE.  
* Heros can see all stats and player's current position, so can make choices
* run away from stronger characters
* move toward weaker characters
* assist team members
* apply first aid to yourself (no move)
* stand still

### PLAN
* If Hero is not beside an enemy, they can make a move decision again.
* If Hero is beside a team member, then can choose to apply first aid (which they give up themselves)
* Attack Plan - player choses who (if beside more than one enemy), and how they will attack 
* Defend Plan - based on players attack (result unknown), will you defend/dodge or continue attack?

### ACTION
* Attack Plan / Defend Plan is executed
** If both players attack, both do damage
** If both players defend, no damage is dealt
** Apply first aid if applying it to another team member


## Battle Scripts

You can fight with up to 5 battlescripts.  Each script respresenting a Hero.

You can choose to:
* Attack, and what strength you will attack with
* Defend, and what strength you will defend with
* Dodge, based on speed, doesn't affect strength, affects stamina.
* Move toward or away from enemies

Chance plays a role in the outcome.  We use a basic random function between 0 and 1.  

# Next Steps

## League
All players automatically take part in a league against other players with the same experience points.

A league starts with 16 teams.  Each 24 hours a league battle occurs.

THE FLOW:
Create league.
Players of the same LEVEL are put into groups of 16.
There is a random draw to decide the initial 8 matches.
The league is published.
Players are now able to bet on the ultimate winner of the league up until the first league battles start.
Players can continue participating and leveling their team up in the Battle Arena.  This means it is possible for players to be competing with players that are different levels when the league starts.

Stats are not treated any differently in league matches.  If your hero's do not have enough health to compete, their match will automatically be forfeited.  Heros earn their usual credits and experience from participating in a league match.


# Betting
Not for real money.  Just in-game credits (which can't be purchased with real money) and bragging rights.
You can bet on the outcome of League games.
Players can bet credits on the outcome of each battle.  They can also bet on the league winner.


# Leaderboards
A whole bunch of player stats where players can choose to try to improve their ranking.
